There's no way for you to visualize a
five-dimensional object in its true
form. And yet, when you smoke DMT, you
do. It's an extremely intense
experience. It's very fast and very,
very short. It's not Terrence McKenna
implanting the idea of machine elves
into people's brains. These are
intelligent beings that go back
thousands of years.
They will perform beings like elves or
harlequins or jokers and jesters and
they will display these impossible
higher dimensional beautiful objects
that kind of morph in front of your
eyes.
Can we show that we're actually
interfacing with some kind of
intelligence that is non-human? If a lot
of people are seeing these architectures
outside of their own reality and they're
all consistent, that seems like it would
be really important.
>> If they want to communicate with us,
they're going to do it through our
brain.
>> Do you think that like elite members of
society have been systematically
accessing these other realms, helping to
shape our reality? Oh,
why don't we repurpose a technique from
anesthesiology called target controlled
[music] intravenous infusion but with
DMT.
>> Wa.
>> So we send in mathematicians, we send in
geometers or topologists, we send in
linguists.
>> Wa.
>> Before we dive into today's episode of
American Alchemy, I want to give a quick
shout out to today's amazing sponsor,
Ground News. All right, let me show you
how I've actually been using this thing.
Take this headline that's been all over
my feed lately. Why MAGA can't move on
from the Epstein files. Now, say what
you want about the headline, but few
stories cut closer to the core of power,
secrecy, and public amnesia than this
one. This is where ground news genuinely
shines. It pulls in 141 different
sources on just that story. You get a
bird's eye view of what the mainstream
media might be pushing, like there are
no Epstein files. Stop asking. and what
independent outlets are suggesting. Like
maybe Epstein was a global honeypot for
secret science programs. Maybe he had
financial leverage on all of our elites.
Who knows? I choose to believe the
latter, but maybe I'm a crazy conspiracy
theorist. You also get this coverage bar
showing who's reporting and who's
mysteriously quiet. The bias
distribution visualizes how each outlet
frames the story, whether they're
steering you toward a left or right
narrative or ignoring the real questions
altogether. The factuality meter helps
you separate solid reporting from
whatever half-baked blog your conspiracy
cousin swears by, which let's admit in
the UFO space, there's also a lot of
[__] circulating out there. And then
there's the ownership tab, which shows
you who's bankrolling each outlet. This,
in my opinion, is the most important
feature, whether it's a hedge fund, a
media conglomerate, big pharma, or some
other big corporation. Obviously,
personally, I follow topics like UAPs
and breakthrough science, and breaking
stories hit my ground news feed without
the algorithm shoving celebrity gossip
or Reddit drama in my face. It's great.
It's an amazing detox. If you want that
kind of clarity, go to
ground.news/jesse.
Michaels with no a for a limited time
only. You can also find that in the
description or hit the QR code on the
screen. If you do that, you'll get 40%
off the unlimited access Vantage plan,
the same plan that I use, or you can
gift it to someone who still thinks that
Jeffrey Epstein just ran a hedge fund.
Again, that's ground.news/jesse
Michaels. Michaels with no egg. I only
promote tools I actually use, and Ground
News is one of them. Don't miss out on
these important stories. Now, let's get
back to the show. Andrew Gallamore,
thank you so much for being on the
podcast. I have been a fan and follower
of yours for a long time now. Uh you've
written a a couple of great books that
I'm aware of, Alien Information Theory,
and you were coming out with Death by
Astonishment, which is sort of an a
title uh is an homage to uh William
Burroughs or or Terrence McKenna. And um
I'm just really excited to talk to you
because I feel like a lot of the alien
stuff dovetales with psychedelics and
psychedelic experiences and I think a
lot of people use that to sometimes
discredit the alien thing as objectively
real. I think the psychedelic thing is
object is is a really important part of
you know our everyday waking
epistemology as I'm sure you would agree
and so I'm excited to dive into that
with you.
>> Fabulous. Good to be here, Jesse. In
Austin, Texas.
>> Absolutely.
>> My first time in Austin
>> for all the way from uh Japan, which is
I was always like, you know, okay, I'll
visit Andrew when I when I go to Japan.
I wanted to do a little Japan tour. So,
it's cool to Thank you for coming out
here.
>> You're welcome.
>> Why don't we just start there actually
with the kind of alien uh uh DMT
connection. Um, I was actually listening
to you on uh my buddy Michael's podcast
uh uh Third Third Eye Drops
>> and you were talking about John Mack and
alien abductions and how a lot of these
alien abduction experiences really
connect or or seem to pattern match to
what people experience on on DMT.
>> Yeah. I mean they're not the the same
but [snorts]
really ever well from the beginning of
DMT research back in so DMT was
discovered in 1956 by this Hungarian
physician uh called Steven Zara. Um this
was when Hungary was a communist state
and um from the very first study that he
did I mean at first he injected himself.
I mean this was kind of the good old
days of of of of science when scientists
injected new drugs into themselves.
>> Yeah. Um
so he discovered after injecting it into
his um into himself that it was quite
clearly very very psychedelic. Um this
kind of rush of highly complex geometric
imagery that kind of overwhelmed him,
seized control of him. Um, so he knew
then that this was something special,
something quite different to the drugs
that were known at the time, LSD,
measculine, psilocybin. Um, this seemed
to kind of transcend that and transport
you to some alternate reality. So he
started injecting with the drug into
um people, colleagues basically who
worked at the same hospital. Uh and even
in those very first studies,
it was quite obvious that these
individuals were not just being
transported to other worlds, but these
were populated worlds and that there
were what seemed to be kind of
intelligent
beings um including little
dimminuative creatures, multitudinous
creatures, lively beings that now we
would recognize as elves or machine
elves in Terrence McKenna Parliament.
Um but when Rick Strazman picked up the
mantle in the early '9s and he did a
much larger study um with 60 volunteers
of various various doses of DMT and
a not insignificant number of these
individuals reported experiences that
would not raise an eyebrow if they had
appeared in books by John Mack. So kind
of alien abduction type experiences
where people are brought into some kind
of highly sophisticated technological
environment where there are beings often
a number of like orderly less senior
beings who were kind of performing the
work and you know
>> analyses and measurements, scanning and
all this kind of stuff. And then often
there was one like top dog who was kind
of in the background but had a very
strong presence
>> um kind of overseeing or supervising the
procedure.
>> Uh and then they'd often be taken on
kind of a tour of this craft or
technological place. Um meetings with
highly intelligent, highly advanced
nonhuman beings. um and then brought
safely back into the normal waking
world. Uh and this if you this kind of
scenario is precisely what
J's abductees or experiences he as he
used to call them were kind of
reporting. So it didn't escape John
Mack's attention and people were asking
him, you know, have you heard about DMT
because what you're what you're talking
about sounds a lot like what people are
reporting um under the influence of DMT.
And I think, you know, Rick Strasman
also said, you know, if if we removed
all references to DMT and in many of the
reports from my volunteers, would anyone
be able to distinguish them from the
reports of alien and abductees? And um I
think towards the end, you know, as as
John Mack progressed through his
abduction career, if you want to put it
like that, um he's
he was he became less convinced that
this was a purely physical nuts andbolts
phenomenon where people were actually
being removed from their their beds at
night and taken on actual physical
crafts, but he started to feel like
this was some kind of non-physical
process that these many of his subjects
reported going to
al environments that weren't that didn't
seem to be physical.
>> Yeah. So places that were had kind of
higher dimensional spaces uh beings that
were very similar to the types of beings
that people encounter uh in DMT. So he
he kind of shifted towards a more
spiritual or metaphysical or
non-physical explanation for these
abduction experiences.
>> And a little context for the audience,
John Mack was the head of the Harvard
psychiatry department in the '9s. and he
was actually childhood friends with a
guy named Bud Hopkins who was
documenting a lot of these sort of
abduction experiences and he started to
take a a deep dive. He was actually
friends with um uh uh Thomas [__] who
wrote um structure of scientific
revolutions and he was like I don't know
maybe some of this alien stuff is real
and [__] was like yeah this you know
basically you should you know try to
maintain the null hypothesis for as long
as possible but even though you sit on a
respectable perch at Harvard you should
actually dive into this. he started to
dive into it, he'd started to take it
very seriously. He was like, "These
people are reporting events that they
feel are very re very real. They have no
mental health history prior or after."
>> Um, and so it's interesting that you say
that he sort of um, you know, starts to
view them as as more spiritual or taking
place in maybe a a realm apart from the
the physical. He was also very inspired
by Stannislov Grath and holotropic
breath work where the the goal is
actually to I think indogenously release
DMT or something at the end of the
breath work. And so if that's inspired
Mac to that extent and then Mack would
use that in his practice with a lot of
the um the abductees in order for them
to recall their experiences. Maybe that
adds to your point. But I will say
>> that some of these abductees have
physical marks and things that and
implants and stuff where it's like like
do you have an explanation for that?
Have you thought of that?
>> Yeah. I mean I I think the the line
between the physical and the
non-physical is not always clearcut.
Right. So it's like you can't really
it's hard to get at. There is obviously
what we would consider to be a physical
aspect, but there also seems to be a
very non-physical aspect. And I just
don't think we as humans we really
understand. I think maybe if we were
able to observe this from a higher
perspective and kind of an overview um
like a bird's eyee view of reality, we
it might be obvious what's going on
here. But I just
>> I just think it's it's it's useful to be
able to distinguish between the
physical. It's kind of instructive to
distinguish between the physical and the
non-physical, but actually sometimes you
point out it may be a combination of the
physical and the non-physical. And I
feel like people like if they were to
point to a dividing line where the
physical and the non-physical sort of
divevested it would be Decart or
something in the kind of proverbial you
know but uh if you look at Decart like
how that divevestature actually occurred
is he was talking about he was doing
thought experiments about a demon
controlling your entire perceptive
epistemology in some almost you know
proto like VR headset that could be
reality and all you could know is that
your own thoughts were were yours or
something.
>> Yeah.
>> And so that's a pretty trippy thought.
>> It is. And I I actually that's kind of
an interesting point because Grath
actually in one of his books he said
look if if there are advanced
intelligent beings you know aliens that
are kind of non-physical discarnate uh
everywhere and nowhere then the way that
they would appear to us um would be
would be dismissed as hallucination.
they would kind of interact with our
brain directly. They wouldn't have to
kind of materialize so to speak in an in
a true quote unquote physical form, but
they would interact with us directly
with our brain. And I think that's
actually what's going on, whether it's
Daycart's demon. Um but I think the when
you smoke DMT for example
um what I think is happening or the what
I've come to believe or lean towards uh
the uh
an explanation for what's happening is
that you have these intelligences that
don't have a
physical form. They don't have a form
that could even be represented in any
kind of visual form. These are
completely non-physical discarnate
beings. Uh but they DMT somehow gives
them access to our
neural machinery. Um and so they are I
believe directing the visions. I I
believe the DMT world to be what I call
a directed world. I don't I don't think
you're going anywhere. Um I don't think
you're peeking through into another
world. Um because that's not how
perception works. perception works by
your brain building this model uh which
is then tested against sensory inputs
from the environment. You you never have
direct access uh to the so-called
external world or the environment. Uh
and I and it's the same in the DMT
experience. You're not seeing um the DMT
world, whatever that might mean. uh
you're simply giving access to these
intelligent agents, giving them access
to your brain. So you don't break
through, I always say you don't break
through into the DMT world. It's the DMT
world or the intelligences within
>> this space that break through into you.
>> They have they they seize control. They
kind of commandeer this world modeling
machinery in your brain. Uh and they
direct your visions. Do they have in
your opinion and this is maybe a
philosophical question
>> do these entities have control
>> prior to you taking DMT and then you are
able to notice it through DMT or are you
like do they take control like when you
take DMT?
>> Well, I'm going to give the optimistic
answer which is to say it's DMT. I mean
what DMT does is it generates this very
fluid and dynamic state uh of the brain
of the cortex this outer layer of the
brain that constructs your world model
and some very recent neuroiming data
actually show that that DMT makes the
brain much more sensitive to being
perturbed by external sensory or or
other types of input. So it becomes
primed if you like um to be commandeer
taken over in this way. So I'd like to
think that they don't have access in the
normal waking state because that's kind
of a horrifying thought right. Uh but in
the presence of DMT they gain access or
that it's a it's your brain is in a much
more uh vulnerable or susceptible state
to being commandeered by these
intelligences. And that's clearly what
happens. people describe this this
massive overwhelming rush of information
that floods their brain, you know,
complex imagery, uh, mathematical
imagery, blueprints, and just in
completely alien stuff that has no
relationship to their normal waking
experience. Um, and I think that is kind
of the hallmark of them basically
saying,
you know, we have control now for the
next 5 minutes or so. Um, and and then
they they kind of show you what they
want to show you, which is sometimes a
performance. Um, they kind of they kind
of say, "Look at this. Look what we can
do." uh and they will show these they
will often display these impossible
higherdimensional beautiful objects that
kind of morph in front of your eyes or
they will hold up screens with these
impossibly complex imagery. They will
perform beings like elves or harlequins
or jokers and jesters and they will kind
of they will say look look at this. This
is impossible and yet we're doing it.
You know they're doing it with your
brain. your brain is like the stage
>> um that they are using to for this
performance. Um and then in other cases
it's more serious. There seems to be a
some kind of agenda. People often
describe like they were waiting for me.
>> Uh they knew they weren't surprised. I
was very [__] surprised, but they
weren't surprised at all. They had a
place ready for me and they slotted me
in and they started working. and there
was scanning and there were lights
flashing and beeping and just they knew
exactly what to do in the short time
available. Yeah, it's um so this brings
up a question of like discernment like
if I don't know you harle jesters and
you know tricksters and stuff and um you
know on the other hand you know there's
things with serious agendas for you. Um,
how do you uh go into a trip like this
and be able to and and fend for yourself
and go in with a specific intention
where you're not, you know, the product
being used, but you have a specific goal
or intention or I don't know, it can be
heal very healing for a lot of people.
For example, maybe [clears throat] maybe
that's the the sort of positive outcome
version of this or how do you how do you
sort of dictate that and is it is it
inherently very risky?
>> You don't dictate it. If you try to
dictate it, then you're in trouble
because there's no way you cannot
dictate it. I mean, that's the thing.
>> You have to surrender.
>> You have to surrender. I mean, you can
go in with intention.
>> Um, and people do, people will go in,
they will, you know, they might suffer
from, I don't know, chronic headaches or
depression or something that
>> they're seeking a solution to something.
>> Uh, and they go in with that intention.
And very often they will find that these
beings will get to work on them
literally on their brain uh and they
will feel their brain being reprogrammed
um rewired by these
elflike beings or other or insecttoid
beings. These are the kind of two of the
most um common types of of of being and
they will they will
>> often achieve great relief from that.
you know, their headaches stop
happening, you know, or or
they feel more positive about life and
feel like their their depression has
lifted. So, that's certainly possible.
It's not
>> it's not like it's um you kind of have
to accept that you get what you get. Um
but at the end of the day, yes, you kind
of do have to accept that you you're not
going to be able to control this thing.
And if you try, that's I think when bad
experiences happen. when you go in there
with a sense of
self- assured uh arrogance that you know
we humans are the top of the the
intelligence tree you know that DMT will
obliterate any any kind of
>> um this anthropocentric belief that
humans are the center of reality and
that we are the most intelligent thing
and that we've got it all worked out.
>> It'll humble you real quick.
>> Oh, it'll humble you within seconds. It
gives you what you need, not what you
want. Often you come in like, you know,
I've
>> dabbled a little bit. I don't do much.
But um
>> and I I did I did Iaska once, so I've
never done DMT, but I've done the
Iawaska is DMT in some sense. It's a
kind of gnarly version of it. I don't
know. I feel like the failure mode for
me would have been like the universe
showing me that, you know, some sort of
like ultimate Fibonacci sequence that
like, you know, [snorts] cuz I'm, you
know, kind of a truth seeker in that
sense. And instead it was like, "No,
just walk and carry water. You know,
your your your job is like like you're
way too grandiose about all this
[laughter] stuff. Like shut up. Like
your family is all that matters."
>> And it was like it was great because of
that. Um
>> but it was not what I wanted, you know?
I wanted I wanted some, you know,
ultimate secret or something.
>> Everybody wants the blueprints for the
time machine. That's right. [laughter]
And they Why don't we get that? Why
don't we get the equations for the grand
unified theory? Yeah, I think humans we
we have this
this very human- centered belief that we
know what what we need. Uh and and these
beings, they have no interest in that.
They know kind of they know what's going
on and we have we haven't got a clue
>> what's going on.
>> Yeah.
>> Um we don't know [__] uh really uh and
that's the most important message that
we need to get first of all before we
start getting the other messages. I
think the first one that we need to take
to heart is that yeah, we haven't got a
clue what's going on. We don't know
[__] Yeah. That we're not we're not
even close. We don't even register on
the scale of intelligences um that you
can encounter within the DMT [snorts]
space.
>> I would agree with that. But you are a
human who has dared to create kind of an
ontology around [laughter] both
psychedelics and it's really awesome and
it dubtales with a lot of my instincts
where um you have this alien information
theory. I want I want to start with that
cuz I I love that book and it it um
>> it goes into like these this idea that
you know these beings could be in some
sense sort of simulating our our current
reality but it also talks about you know
there are myths from you know jin and
Islam to angels and demons and
Christianity or or you know Judaism and
uh these things sort of having uh full
wholesale control over our our realities
and then you yeah there's some sort of
br a bridge that takes place with DMT,
but you even get into, you know, the
information theory components of of this
and how they're maybe more pure
information theoretic, these beings, and
you talk about John Wheeler. And so, um,
yeah, I maybe maybe just for the
audience, I'd love I'd love for you to
kind of go through that kind of whole
ontology.
>> Yeah, I mean, the book Alien Information
Theory, people read it and think that
this is kind of what I believe. It's
it's not what I believe. It's it's a
it's a work of art. It's a work of
metaphysical speculation. I'm simply
trying to show people that
the world could well be and probably is
something or reality probably is
something that we completely different
to what is normally presented to us by
the theoretical physicists and the
mathematicians and the astronomers and
the astrobiologists etc etc and that
actually reality is probably as Terrence
McKenna used to you know, stranger than
we can suppose.
>> Yes.
>> Um, and
>> I [laughter] think that was Arthur C.
Clark, but
>> it was actually it was JBS Haldane
originally said he used the word queer
>> uh than we suppose. Um, but stranger
than we suppose. It's probably better
these days.
>> Um, but yeah, anyway, and and I think
he's right. I mean, 30 seconds after you
inhale a lung full of DMT, it's quite
obvious that the reality is far far
stranger than you could possibly have
supposed or anticipated. Uh, and the
book was really to present
one particular way of looking at
reality. You know, maybe reality could
be something like this. Um, I don't
think I got everything right. Um but I
think the idea which I think is broadly
correct or could well be broadly correct
um is that this reality our lower
dimensional reality our
three-dimensional plus one um reality is
is really a thin slice within a much
larger higher dimensional structure. So
we're kind of embedded within this
highdimensional structure that we never
normally have access to. And for reasons
that we don't quite understand, DMT
grants us temporary access to this um
highdimensional structure. And so you
the world you kind of unfold into is I
guess is one way of describing it. your
brain um kind of unfolds into this
highdimensional structure. This is why
people describe entering a world that is
not just strange but is literally
impossible in that it could not exist
within our three-dimensional world.
World in which there are
more dimensions what appears to be a
very higher dimensional space. It's a
kind of reality that our reality, our
three-dimensional world could only exist
within, but it could not exist within
our reality. If that makes sense.
>> It makes total sense. Yeah. I think
>> and at best they're little ports or
bridges where they connect or something,
right? And you talk about like it's like
Carl Sean had this great clip where he's
talking about platonic solids and he
talks about a tesseract and you would
never see the tesseract. You'd see a
shadow of the tesseract. There's a great
um book um by Sir Edwin Abbott called
Flatland. Yeah. Where it's like a 2D
people and how they interact with 3D
creatures and um you know maybe there
are ports or whatever whereby you know
they can somehow connect to the 3D
reality but they're it's extremely
limited. We're we're seeing sort of the
tip of the iceberg. We're not seeing you
know the iceberg itself. Yeah. We are
kind of trapped within that flat land.
Um, and you know, as Cole Seagan said,
you would only in this world, we would
only see the shadow of the tesseract.
When you go into the DMT space, people
do describe seeing
>> tesseracts and they will describe them.
I saw something that was impossible. It
was a
>> fourdimensional cube or five-dimensional
cube, which is completely impossible for
us to comprehend. Only we can only
imagine it in the as a mathematical
abstraction. We there's no way for you
to visualize uh or to to see a
five-dimensional object in its true
form. And yet when you smoke DMT, you do
you enter these worlds that appear to be
higher dimensional. I I think yes rather
than the portal well it is kind of a
portal but I would say it's it's gating
the flow of information from so rather
than only receiving information let's
say from this 2D flatland if you're in
the flatland you start to receive
information from the third d the third
dimension and so your the brain
temporarily effectively becomes a higher
dimensional object the world that it's
constructing is also higher dimensional.
So, you're seeing more you're literally
seeing a greater expanse of reality than
you can uh in the normal waking state.
>> Oh, it's so fascinating.
This episode is brought to you by my
favorite new product, Masa Chips. Here's
a quick history lesson. Before the
1990s, all chips and fries were cooked
in beef tallow. Then, the big food
companies swapped this ingredient out
for cheap, highly processed seed oils.
Today, seed oils make up 20% of the
average American's calories, and they're
linked to all sorts of bad things like
chronic inflammation and metabolic
issues. Masa decided to rewind the
clock. They make tortilla chips with
just three simple ingredients: organic
corn, sea salt, and 100% grass-fed beef
tallow. No seed oils, no weird
additives, and honestly, they taste way
better, too. Masa chips are crunchier,
more flavorful, and they don't
disintegrate in guac like the usual
ones. But the real difference is how you
feel. Light, satisfied, no crash, no
bloat, and no weird craving spiral an
hour later. I've been snacking on them
non-stop while working on these shows,
and they actually keep me sharp. Masa
chips are beloved by tens of thousands
of customers and have been endorsed by
industry-leading health and nutrition
experts like Ben Greenfield and Gary
Brea. So, ready to give Masa a try? Go
to masachips.com/jesse
michaels. Michaelels with no a and use
code jessemichels for 25% off your first
order. That's masachips.com/jesse
michaels and use code jesse michaels for
25% off your first order. You're really
helping the channel out when you use
that code. And this is a product I love
and consume just about every day.
You have different models of the brain
that might involve sort of you know um
quantum biological processes like we
have you know this burgeoning field of
quantum biology where you know birds use
it to you know locate the
magneettosphere of the earth and
navigate home and yeah you know enzyme
creation and you have you know
photosynthesis is another example and
then you have Roger Penrose saying that
the brain might you know these
microtubules use uh uh sort of you know
quantum biological processes
And that would make sense in this sort
of model because that would explain a
lot of this sort of pre-sentiment where
you're sort you sort of have you know
some some sort of access to the future
and you you see traces of the future or
the remote viewing stuff all these sort
of non-local quote unquote experiences
of consciousness would be maybe
explained in a model like this and so
even Schrodener who's you know developed
you know the the wave function that
governs all subatomic behavior in
quantum mechanics. He had a lecture
series called what is life where he
talked about aperiodic crystals in the
DNA? And he was basically like these are
like ports of like higher consciousness
or something like like there's like some
sort of tesseract that like we're
tethered to. There's something higher
than us and we're like we're a low-level
port within which or prism within which
this higher thing is has to be sort of
you know reduced into like the body is a
reduction valve. Yeah, I think like one
of the questions that often comes up
when I describe this idea that DMT is
allowing information to flow from
some other place. Um the question that
always comes up is like like how does
that work? I mean we understand how
information comes through the sense
organs from the the the normal
three-dimensional
dimensional environment, but how does
that information come from this other
place? And I think the answer is at a
very low level. So quantum subquantum
maybe even much deeper levels that we we
don't even understand. I think it's
coming from um wherever however we are
connected to this broader reality
structure, this broader higher
dimensional structure. Wherever that
connection is is obviously going to be
kind of at the ground of reality at the
quantum or the subquantum. And so the
explanation I or or the kind of the
model that I describe in alien alien
information theory is this idea that the
information is coming from the very
deepest levels of reality. Yeah. and
flowing upwards through the quantum and
then the the subatomic and the atomic
and through into these uh complex
networks and ultimately to this highest
level of of the brain where your world
model is constructed. So you have
information always kind of flowing
welling up if you like
>> um um from the deepest level of reality
and that process is somehow gated by the
presence of DMT. Yeah. Well, Neils Bore
would always say, you know, if you think
you understand quantum mechanics, you
definitely don't. It's like extremely
confusing. And then if you you look at
all the forefathers of quantum
mechanics, they all flirted with the
idea that the mind had something to do
with wave function collapse, often going
back and forth on that issue, but it
wasn't completely like heretical like it
is sort of today. Yeah. And there's a
guy named Hal Putoff actually who's
known to be at the forefront of like all
the alien research and he was just on
Joe Rogan and he he ran the government
psychic spy program for the CIA. So
super interesting guy like but also at
the tip of the spear of sort of exotic
propulsion modalities. Longtime NSA CIA
scientist who worked at Stanford
Research Institute and he has a model of
extended electronamics that involves uh
vector and scalar potentials. So these
subquantum sort of phenomena
>> that might have something to do with
dictating wave function collapse and
maybe you know if aliens were to
communicate they'd probably communicate
like this because apparently they
propagate either at 1 / r not 1 over r
squar so like you don't get the
attenuation over spaceime
>> um that that you do you don't get the
drop off um and it seems like they they
you know you get like you know
effectively like really really fast you
know communications and stuff with them
and So, I don't know. It's fascinating.
I I wonder I wonder if we can break any
ground on this stuff in our lifetime and
if we or if we get a new model of
physics in our lifetime. Like, do you
think do you think physics in some ways
is sort of sort of breaking? It feels
like all the string theorists are
admitting that they're, you know, not
not really getting anywhere.
>> Yeah. I I mean, I'm not a physicist. Um
but I have spoken to physicists and the
problem I think you get is as soon as
you start talking about discarnate
intelligent advanced intelligences you
the eyes start to roll and it's like
they already they've already decided
what's possible and what's not possible
and and the idea of these advanced super
intelligent agents that that you somehow
interface with in the DMT state. It's
too far from what they can accept.
>> Well, because they turn science into an
all-encompassing sort of religion. But
if you think about if really what
they're calling science is two things.
It's predictively useful and it can turn
into sort of instrumentalizable
technology. That is it. Right? It is not
an onlogical map of reality. And so when
you say I've experienced these beings in
a DMT state,
>> when we could say tons of people, like a
statistically significant amount of
people experience the same things in the
DMT state, they can just write that off
because you can't turn it into math and
you can't make it repeatable in our sort
of waking reality. But I think that
whole mode has limits and that that
itself is going to break. Like the the
that the very idea that that is sort of
a satisfactory explanation of all you
know metaphysics our reality itself has
to break at some point.
>> Yeah. I mean I I think
you know what I've I've been studying
DMT for 20 years and my approach has
always been to first of all take the
explanations that I'm given by kind of
mainstream science. Um these are
hallucinations. This is a type of dream
imagery. These are, you know, in
um a kind of archetypal symbols that
come from the collective unconscious and
I have to basically deal with them. I
have to analyze them, deconstruct them
and show why they fail before I can say,
okay, we've tried all the explanations
that you've given, we've tried to kind
of make them fit, and they don't. they
leave the vast majority of the DMT
experience completely unaccounted for.
So can we now please start to think
about explanations that would have
before seemed to be untenable. Um and
when you do that you actually find that
the idea that there are advanced
intelligences that are non-physical that
have transcended the physical what are
often referred to as postbiological
beings. That's not far out anymore. I
mean, there are very mainstream
scientists that are saying, okay, um,
you know, how does a intelligent
civilization
progress? Okay, it it reaches eventually
after maybe millions of years, it
reaches a kind of technological age, the
kind of age we're in now, a a digital uh
computer age. then it starts thinking
about
um
transcending biology. I mean people are
thinking about that already.
>> Um and um many scientists are saying
look we're probably now maybe only a few
hundred years away from dispensing with
the biological paradigm and shifting to
a post-biological paradigm. Um, and you
can see it in, you know, you have to
kind of ignore,
in my opinion anyway, this this climbing
the Cardesefev scale, this kind of Elon
Musk idea that we're going to be
colonizing Mars. This is a very human
idea
>> um that we have that we're simply going
to be expanding out into the cosmos and
kind of populating other planets and
moons or whatever as humans. I I don't
think that's what it's going to look
like at all. And actually, if you look
at the anti-artership scale uh proposed
by John Barrow in the 1990s uh where he
said, look, we we spend okay, we spend a
lot of money sending objects into orbit
or you know to distant celestial
objects, whatever. But we spend much
more time going not outwards but inwards
to smaller and smaller scales. If you
think about the Large Hadron Collider,
um this is aimed at trying to understand
and manipulate
smaller and smaller structures, not
larger and larger structures. And so it
seems that
a more likely trajectory for an
intelligent civilization is not to go
out into the cosmos, but to go deeper
and deeper levels until you reach what
Barrow called the omega minus
civilization, which is able to
manipulate the fundamental structure of
spaceime or the fundamental structure of
reality itself. This is where we're
going to be or this is where intelligent
civilizations are going to instantiate
themselves not by spawning across the
cosmos uh but by instantiating
themselves at the deepest level the
fundamental computational substrate of
reality itself. That's where they're
going to go. And once they do that, once
they make that leap, they disappear.
They become
um everywhere and nowhere. Yeah,
>> they become completely transparent to
normal modes of communication and yet
they are literally right here, right
now. And I think the idea if if they
want to communicate with us, they're
going to do it through our brain.
Um, that's obvious. Why why materialize
in a physical form? That makes no sense.
I mean, maybe they can do that. Uh, but
it makes much more sense for them to
interface directly with our brains. So
that idea isn't far out. It doesn't it
doesn't stray too far from modern
scientific discourse. Um and that's
exactly what I'm suggesting happens with
DMT is that you are gating access to
some kind of advanced intelligent agent
to your brain. Could it be one of these
postbiological beings that had um
vanished into the fabric of spaceime
long before we arrived on the scene?
Maybe. Could they be beings that exist
parallel to our universe in some higher
level of reality? Maybe. I don't know.
But what I'm saying isn't it's not
mystical. It's not magical. It's
actually perfectly in line in my opinion
with what scientists are already u
talking about in completely different
fields.
>> Yeah. I love that. Well, yeah. Even
Richard Fineman you f famous physicist
well respected by all you know
conventional or not
>> said you know there's room at the bottom
that was his famous sort of line. So
>> much more room.
>> Much more room
>> at the bottom. I mean orders many orders
of magnitude.
>> Yes.
>> Space down there.
>> Down there. And that's what he meant is
what you were t is sort of this you know
similar to the anti-cardev scale where
you know we have to go inwards and not
not just outwards. And even the Elon
Musk thing involves all sorts of,
>> uh, convoluted, you know, uh, logic that
makes no sense because he'll say at the
same time as we need to, you know,
colonize Mars and then go interstellar
and like, you know, endlessly float
through Cartisian space to like, you
know, make the whole cosmos our empire
or whatever. He'll say that and then
he'll say we live in a simulation. You
can't believe [laughter] if like if you
think we live in a simulation and you
have to think how can we ascend outside
of the simulation that needs to be your
first order thing before anything else.
>> But he's basically saying no we have to
accept the assimulation as it is and
then just float through it and find some
exoplanet. It's like what are you
talking about dude like find the
computer code. What are you that makes
no sense. So, um, yeah, I find that
interesting and and another kind of cut
at what you're saying with, you know,
kind of, um, large hadron colliders and
and finding, you know, really small, you
know, subquantum, you know, quirks and
that sort of thing is the human being.
We take the human out of science like
we're not we are not allowed to view
ourselves as a measurement instrument.
So, it's like the double slit experiment
where everybody's always like it's the
quantum detector, it's not the person or
whatever. and you know the large hydron
collider which is like it's a it's like
a you know an empirical like objective
thing that we can do but what about what
about an individual's like epistemology
and especially over you know you're
studying this stuff systematically like
can you discount all of that if if a lot
of people are seeing these architectures
outside of their own reality and they're
all consistent that seems like it would
be really important like the three you
know the three body problem this Chinese
science fiction novel Like it's so great
where he talks about like the farmer and
the shooter. If we are these 2D things
on flat land or whatever and they're
like, you know, metal metal sheets or
something and you have shooters who are
in 3D space shooting at the metal. You
see these little craters. We just think
they're little,
>> you know, holes, little caverns in our
in our flatland. We have no idea that
there are literally like people who are
like, you know, grading the metal and
like, you know, forming our world that,
you know, they're sort of responsible
for it. Um, and it's completely at their
discretion. And the whole thing is that
they literally have particle
accelerators that like get different
results and it's like it's kind of like
the the physics itself is at the
discretion of these like triceran
aliens. It's a real mind [__] cuz
there's nothing a conventional physicist
can say
>> that's like 100% debunking of that
possibility.
>> Yeah, precisely. [laughter]
>> Yeah. and and and they develop, you
know, when they see these little pock
marks coming,
>> they have, you know, mathematical models
for how these arise that that are
completely wrong, of course, but
[laughter] and but they kind of maybe
hold together and they develop more
sophisticated models to explain how
these pockm marks appear and they just
have no idea that it's it's some other
intelligence that's generating them. And
I think, you know, I I strongly lean
towards the idea that that's the kind of
reality that we live in, that we have
all of these models of what's going on,
and all models are wrong, but some are
useful. Um, and I think sometimes it's
having useful models, which we clearly
have useful models because we have all
of this technology. So, we clearly our
models, they're not nonsense. But the
idea, it's important not to to mistake a
useful model with a true model and that
we're actually getting to the act the
actual true nature of reality because I
don't think we can say that at all.
>> Yeah. It's the map is not the territory.
>> Exactly.
>> And it's like you have that's why I
think string theory is such BS. It's
like I don't need to be a super
wellrespected physicist. I'm not a
physicist. But if you have two bad maps,
general relativity and quantum
mechanics, which are just heruristics
for creating technology that's adaptive,
so we can, you know, do cool stuff in
the world, create, you know, uh, you
know, create in the world. Um, why would
you put the two jagged maps together
with abstract math? That's never going
to work. Like, if you just think about
that high level, it doesn't make sense.
>> Right. Exactly. I mean, I'm not a
physicist, so I don't want to start, you
know, getting into Ed Whitten's
territory and things like that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I was losing a debate
[laughter] to him, but like
>> but like again, you just all you need is
that high level common sense thing like
heterodoxy and unorthodox thinking
doesn't scale with IQ. You can have a
[clears throat] hyper specialized
extremely intelligent person who is bled
into a BS culde-sac like sheep to
slaughter. And that that happens all the
time.
>> Oh yeah, absolutely.
>> So there's there's intelligence is it's
a really finicky hard, you know, thing
where it's like the the the ability to
think in a sort of a variant, you know,
non- consensus way. It doesn't
necessarily scale in this perfect way
like like mathletes are not necessarily
doing that thing.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, and there's a place for both,
but like I don't [laughter] know.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. But um do you think that you know
there have been uh groups you know
Graham Hancock wrote the the forward uh
to your new book the death by
astonishment uh which I recommend
everybody go by and um he Graham's a
really interesting guy because he kind
of oscillates between writing about kind
of you know more conventional
archaeology but just kind of you know
his like contrarian views you know
things like Gbeckley and the younger dus
impact theory
>> and then he writes these other books
that people don't talk about as much
with like Robert Beval
>> about like secret societies like
controlling [laughter] earth and stuff
and like you have you know the
Freemasons I think an acacia leaf or
something is like in their like you know
symbology
>> and you have the luscinian mystery
rituals Graham also wrote the forward to
Brian Murescu's book you know about you
know called the immortality key about
these mystery rituals do you think that
like elite members of soc society have
been systematically accessing these
other realms and either on behalf of or
in conjunction with these quote unquote
entities or machine elves helping to
shape our reality. Are they are there
myth makers? Oh, I mean that's a very
interesting idea. I mean the short
answer is I don't know. But it's quite
clear that there are there are have been
civilizations going back thousands of
years. I mean, Graeme wrote this
wonderful book, Supernatural, which is
not one of his most well-known, where he
he examined
um the cave art going back tens of
thousands of years, and made the
compelling argument, as have many other
anthropologists, it's not just Graham
here, um that these civilizations 30,
40,000 years ago during the upper paleo
upper Paleolithic, if I'm getting my
periods, right? But anyway, um they were
the cave art clearly showed beings that
were nonhuman, that were nonan animal or
that seem to be some kind of combination
of humanoid and animal form uh in these
pitch [snorts] black deep dark caves. Um
and
the question is why? Why? Why, you know,
were they interfacing? Did they discover
a a means of uh interacting with these
intelligences all all those thousands of
years ago? Um you know darkness is very
interesting as a kind of as an aside
here um in that many people who like
modernday um darkness retreats where
people go into these pitch black rooms
for five six seven days many of them
describe you know after the fourth fifth
day describe experiences that they say
are DMT experiences Aubry Marcus I was
on his show a few months ago and he's
very experienced with DMT He's also very
experienced with darkness retreats. And
he said
>> this wasn't like DMT. This was a DMT. I
had a DMT experience whilst you know
after the fourth or fifth day in in this
darkness retreat. So we're actually
doing a study now um we're kind of
initiating a study to actually test
this. myself and New Nordics, um the
group that I work with in Florida, we're
funding a study where they're going to
send people into these darkness
retreats, dark rooms, and then take
urine samples or saliva samples or blood
samples at intervals and see do these
DMT DMT spikes.
>> Do we see DMT?
>> That's fascinating. Yeah. Well, you
know, there there were even pre the
Elusinian and other mystery rituals
where they would take urgot, you know,
this sort of, you know, LSA, you know,
psychedelic substance.
>> Um, there were caving rituals. There are
prescratic caving rituals. A guy named
Peter Kingsley writes about this where
they would literally go into a cave for
long amounts of time and they would
presumably have some pretty transcendent
sort of experiences. So, that's really
interesting.
>> So, that could be what's what's going
on. And so this is just another
technology or another technique that
they they had discovered. Yeah.
>> Um and and you see throughout history
whether you know it could be the theian
mysteries where they discovered this
urgot preparation. Now whether it's just
urgot, whether there are other
synergistic plants being added. Some
people speculate that and Brian Muresco
speculated there are other things going
in that enhance or catalyze um the
experience but still it's the same
thing. you're somehow you're using some
kind of technique whether it's a
molecular technique or darkness or
breath work or whatever some kind of
technique to manipulate your uh
neurochemistry in some way such that you
can access these intelligent beings that
you couldn't access otherwise. And so,
so the fact that these civilizations
have been working with these
intelligences for thousands and
thousands of years,
you you kind of have to take that
seriously to just dismiss it and say,
"Oh, they were just deluding themselves.
They were just having hallucinations."
No, I think that's that's it's kind of
insulting. um the the Amazonians who
developed Iawaska for example, you know,
this is a true pharmacological
technology. This is not just an infusion
of a plant. This isn't this is this is a
technology that requires both the DMT
which is orally inactive plus uh this
plant banisteropsis karpy, the ioaska
vine which contains the mauo inhibitors
that allow it to become active. these
have to be brought together. Um, and so
this is a pharmacological technology
that they have developed and they
develop relationships with the beings
that they uh interact with in the ioaska
state and also with other plant-based
preparations, EA uh Yopo and others. Um,
they develop relationships with these
beings. They have names for the
different types of beings. They see them
um as members of their tribe. They don't
see them as spirits. They don't call
them spirits. They say they are not
human. They are not animal. They are
other.
>> Um they see them as but they see them as
beings that they can develop
relationships with. Um that will protect
them. Um that they can communicate with
that they can seek answers from. Um and
to dismiss all of that and say, "Oh,
they're just, you know, they're just
hallucinating." I think it's it's it it
just speaks to the this this self
assured cocky arrogance that modern
>> postenlightenment humans have that we
have it all worked out. We have a handle
on what's possible and what's not
possible. We know what's real and what's
not real. And I'm sorry, but that's not
real. I'm afraid you're just
hallucinating. It's just a kind of
dream.
>> No, I'm sorry, but that doesn't stand up
to scrutiny. Um and it's kind of
insulting to these uh cultures that have
developed these technologies and IO is a
incredible technology.
>> Yeah, it's amazing.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's so it's so fascinating just
the likelihood of combining those two
things, you know, in the Amazon forest
are like if you run through a bunch of
pure permutations or whatever, the
likelihood of getting that combination
is very low still. Exactly. like it's it
it had to have been that itself had to
have been sort of downloaded or
something as like a a recipe for this.
And
>> that's what they will tell you. They
will tell you if you ask them how did
you discover this? They will say well
the plants told us you know when they
say the plants they mean these
intelligences which reside within the
forest. They told them how to how to do
this. And who are we to say?
>> And they talk about people from the
start. It's funny in the western context
we have disclosure and we have you know
uh uh you know government reverse
engineering programs and there they're
like yeah obviously we have these people
that we commun with from the you know
they come down from the stars and I also
find it interesting if you were to go to
any western academic you know philosophy
department you know there's a famous
quote I think all philosophy is a
footnote of Plato or something right
yeah
>> and we think of Plato as like the father
of you know modern western rationality
like pre-enlightenment
And then you like look back at like what
he was doing and it's like he went to
Elusis and he was tripping on Urgot and
like probably experiencing some like
primordial soul version, you know,
there's a word for it, noisis, the ver
version of himself
>> and then he writes about all of that
stuff in the Republic and we ignore that
and we talk about it like it's some like
myopic governance manual and it's just
like what is like it's completely
retracing the past with our modern kind
of disenchantment epistemology. ology.
>> Yeah. Alan Watts used to say that the
modern philosopher would wear a white
coat if he thought he could get away
with it, [laughter] right? They think of
themselves as like scientists doing
philosophy. They come in with their
briefcase and they put on their white
coat and they do philosophy. They take
themselves very seriously. Yeah. That
they're getting to the
>> the nitty-gritty, the truth of the
matter.
>> Yeah. Exa, that's exactly right. And I
think there's this like desire for
people like Stephen Pinker, Richard
Richard Dawkins or all these people to
like defend the status quo. Like I think
the big rift between people like that
and like maybe you and me is like
>> I don't think we I don't we think that
we don't have any of the answers like
you and me. I think they think that they
do. And like we are putting the final
period at the end of a very long
sentence of you know this enlightenment
project and uh we're at the end of
history in some ways like the final rule
in the game of chess is yet to be
figured out. Maybe that's string theory
maybe it's some you know other thing but
like we pretty much know how reality
works in their in their model
>> and that is insane to me. It's insane.
It's the ultimate hubris. [laughter]
Well, they were saying that I forget who
said it. Uh maybe it was like the 19th
century that we have basic all of
physics has now been worked out. It's
nor now a matter of increasingly precise
measurements.
And then came relativity and quantum
theory and it's changed everything and
but we we make the same mistakes
>> even now you know many people not
everybody and and you have to be a
little bit careful uh because there is a
lot of for one of a better term
[__]
>> Yeah. um that that got you know within
this kind of field right there are a lot
of grifters uh and there are a lot of
[__] artists and so you have to it's
really difficult you have to kind of
tread a fine line between not being
there's this tension
>> I always find and one is pulling you
back towards
standard materialist orthodox mainstream
science um and kind
thinking, "Yeah, we've got it all worked
out. These are just hallucinations.
Nothing to be concerned about." And then
you've got another this this this
from the opposite direction. You're
being pulled into just a steaming pile
of [__] right? And it's like, how
do you You have to It's a constant
struggle for me.
>> Yes.
>> To try and separate myself from the
[__] whilst not being too far out
from the sign. If you're engaging in
that struggle, then you're doing it
right. Yeah. It's it's a sila and
caribbdus between excess dogmatism and
excess skepticism. Or to put it in your
the way you just framed it, um
>> newagy kind of solopscistic, you know,
everything is everything mushyrained
thinking. And then on the other hand, uh
you know, complete uh uh radical
cartisian skepticism or something like
there has to be some middle path.
>> Exactly. And that that that is a
treacherous place. So you find yourself
very alone because it's it's much easier
to snap to grid on either there's the
tribal dynamics exist in a way that uh
you know things coagulate on either end
of that kind of you know barbell.
>> Yeah. Exactly. So that's what I do. So I
it's it's it's a difficult path, but
it's the only path I think. Um when
you're faced with something like DMT,
which is so strange and is so in my
opinion mysterious and inexplicable, you
you're not going to be able to explain
it by just snapping to um the usual
explanations because because they fail.
Yeah. Uh and that's what I found is that
they fail. So I tread care. I keep one
foot firmly planted in the scientific
arena. Yeah. And I and I then reach out
with an outstretched hand into other
territory, but I'm very careful about
what I say, what I do, and that I try
and rationalize and explain my thinking
every step of the way. I don't just say,
"Oh, me, maybe these are spirits from
the astral plane. Yeah, that'll do."
Right? [laughter]
>> You know, maybe these are spirits of the
departed. Yeah, that will do. Yeah. Um
because you can anything goes right and
you can't I try to trace it back and
make just
>> just to kind of convince people that I'm
not just nuts. I'm not just kind of
going with whatever but I do explain
myself I think kind of carefully and
rationally and you know piece by piece
step by step.
>> Yeah. No, I I feel the same way and it's
it's tough because like YouTube for
example doesn't do nuance well. No. So
I, you know, I have a show and people
think it's it's like an alien show or
whatever. I'm like, I don't know if
these things are aliens. Like I don't
know if in fact I would say that there
are other hypotheses that better
describe them than the sort of e, you
know, classic extraterrestrial
hypothesis. But it's this meme that
people can't seem to transcend or
something. And so
>> it's it's it's wild. But um on that note
of like wanting to keep your your feet
sort of firmly grounded,
>> we were talking before the camera about
Christopher Timberman at at Imperial
College who you sort of devised some of
these extended DMT experiments that he's
you know executing. We were also talking
about uh a mutual friend. I haven't
talked to him in a long time. this guy
Anton Bilton
>> who was thinking of giving people DMT
putting them in adjacent Faraday cages
so there you know there's no way of like
you know traditional signals being
communicated you know
electromagnetically
>> and seeing if they can telepathically
like you know transport im communicate
images between them. Are there any
experiments like those two or anything
else that you are particularly excited
about that brings this stuff out of the
realm of speculation and more into the
scientific mainstream?
>> Yeah, I I mean so the DMT the work that
Chris Timberman was doing at Imperial
this ex what's called extended state DMT
or DMTX it has come to be known for
short. So this was a model, a proposal
by myself and Rick Strasman back in 2015
because as everyone knows who knows
anything about DMT, it's it's an
extremely intense experience. You know,
you're trans you're kind of hurtled into
this alternate world. You look around,
shocked, bewildered, a gasast
um at this thing that's just appeared in
front of you uh and that surrounds you
and overwhelms you. and then you're kind
of dragged back again very very quickly.
It's it's it's not a great drug used in
that way, you know, vaporized or
injected. It's not a great drug to kind
of explore. It's not a the state is it's
very fast and very very short. Um, so I
was kind of looking at DM DMT is a weird
>> drug, not just in terms of its effects,
but it's it has these pharmacological
peculiarities that set it apart. Um, so
unlike other drugs, for example, LSD or
psilocybin, if you give someone LSD,
they will have a certain intensity of
experience based upon dose. If you then
give them the same dose, let's say a day
later, it will be slightly diminished.
and then a day later and it you you you
rapidly build up tolerance. The same
with psilocybin.
With DMT you don't uh and it's not fully
understood why. Um but Rick Strazman
there have been you know reports going
back decades that you know you can use
DMT in quick succession uh and not
experience any tolerance effect. And
Rick Strasman studied this during his
1990s studies. He would inject someone
with DMT and he'd measure the intensity
of the experience using a special rating
scale that he developed. Then he'd
inject them again 30 minutes later with
the same dose and they had the same
intensity of experience and on and on.
So there was no buildup of tolerance. Um
it's also of course because it's so
short acting um it's it's removed from
the the brain. It gets into the brain
very very quickly and it's cleared from
the brain very very quickly. It's it's
just this it's like an almost like it's
engineered with precision
to kind of slot into the brain's
machinery and kind of cause these highly
dramatic changes in the structure and
dynamics of the world. And so it it
occurred to me that well why don't we
repurpose a technique from
anesthesiology called target controlled
intravenous infusion um where you if you
want to keep someone in an anesthetized
state. What you do is you don't just
inject them with a drug and kind of let
it kind of get into their brain and then
metabolize because you can't control how
long they're they remain unconscious
for. So what you do you you inject them
with a very short acting anesthetic and
you infuse it use a a special infusion
device which is programmed based upon
the uh the the metabolism and
distribution all these kind of
properties of the drug that you you need
a mathematical model for. Um so you
infuse it into their their uh their
veins and and you able to maintain this
fairly stable brain concentration of
this anesthetic drug and you can
manipulate how deep they are in in the
anisttized state for as long as you
want. Then you switch off the machine
that they will come out fairly fairly
quickly. So I thought what why don't we
just use this technology uh but with
DMT.
>> Whoa.
>> And so I wrote to Rick and I said I kind
of have this idea. I think this might
work but we need to kind of show that it
that it could work. Um and for that we
needed this what's called a
pharmacocinetic model which models how
DMT is distributed and metabolized so
that we can we can just show that yes
this should work that DMT the properties
of DMT make it amunable for this
technique. And so Rick had all of the
blood data, blood sampling data from his
90s studies which he sent to me and then
we got to work and we wrote this paper
uh which basically said yes DMT seems to
be amanable to this kind of technology.
Um and it got a lot of attention. People
started talking about alien
communication machines and the matrix
and this kind of thing, the matrix
machine, uh whatever. But then
fortunately um Imperial College picked
it up um and they developed a much
better model than than our kind of back
of the envelope model um and they
implemented it in humans and they were
able to extend the DMT state stabilize
it um for 30 minutes. So instead of just
two or three minutes within the
breakthrough state, they extended it for
30 minutes. And uh it it worked very
very well. The there was no
physiological concerns. The heart rate,
blood pressure was normal. Anxiety
levels kind of peaked at the beginning
and then settled down. Um the the
intensity of the experience was
perfectly stable uh throughout the 30
minutes. Um and another group in Barzel
Mata u Matias Leaki I think he's called
uh has extended it for 90 minutes.
Another group has extended it for 6
hours at a very low dose level. So this
is the technology right? Um this is this
is how we go from
um scuba diving to deep sea diving. You
have this like you you're able to go to
the bottom of the ocean and stay there.
You know you have a direct line back to
the boat. You know, that's how I see
DMTX. It allows you to explore, to
navigate, to perform experiments
within the space, uh, and to train
people,
>> um, to actually spend time within the
space. And importantly,
>> it's almost like lucid dreaming or
something.
>> Kind of like a little in control in a
place, typically out of control.
>> Exactly. And so once you get into this
space and it stabilizes, then you can
begin to think about establishing
communication with these intelligences.
Whatever you think they are, whatever
you think about their ontology,
okay, we can establish communication
with them, begin to um think about, you
know, what can we learn from them? Um,
and one aspect that I'm particularly
interested in is the ontology. Can we
demonstrate that these are more than
just
fabrications of the brain? Right? Can we
show somehow that we're actually
interfacing with some kind of
intelligence that is non-human? And that
if that was possible, and I think it
might be, that's I mean that the
implications of that is almost beyond
comprehension,
>> right? [laughter] the idea that we can
use this drug to communicate with beings
and we can show that these are non-human
intelligent beings. And I think that's
that's that could be possible. Uh back
in the early 2000s, uh a guy called
Rodriguez published this paper and he
said, why don't we give these entities
uh why don't we give them mathematical
problems so we can say okay I'll give
you a large number Mr. Alien uh I want
you to find the unique prime factors of
this large number. I can't do this in my
head. Uh but you're very very smart. So
you can do that for me. Now it's a nice
idea, right? Uh and if they gave him the
correct answer, we'd know that it was
not happening in the brain, that there
was actually interaction with some kind
of intelligence. The problem with this,
of course, is that, you know, finding
it's it it's it kind of feels again a
bit presumptuous that they're going to
want to play our little prove your
onlogical status games. Prove that
you're real. here's some, you know, I
don't see the it it's very presumptuous
to think that they're going to want to
kind of play along with that. So, I
don't think that's necessarily the way
to go. It's one way to go. Uh, but I
think what's interesting about these
intelligences is that they betray they
can't help but betray their
intelligence. Everything they do is um
is is is a kind of performance and
demonstration of their intelligence. You
just need people who can recognize it.
Um so I was speaking just a few days ago
in Denver at psychedelic science
conference with um Andres Gomez Emilson.
So he's this very smart mathematician
guy but also very interested in DMT.
>> And he was telling me things that were
blowing my mind. I mean he was he said
okay I go into this state uh the DMT
state and these beings they they they
paint surfaces in four colors.
>> They do it repeatedly.
Now, to me, if I go in and I see an
entity painting surfaces with four
colors, I go, "That's cool."
But he said, "Actually, there's more to
it than this." Because painting a
surface with four colors, like a map,
yeah, a complicated map of shapes,
right, with four colors, it's called the
four color color theorem. So if you have
a map of shapes that are all kind of
tessillated, right? Um you have you have
to color each shape with a color. So one
of four colors so that no two shapes
have um the same color, right? So
imagine a world map and you have to
color every country, but you don't want
two countries having the same color,
right? You can do it. It's been proved
that you can do it with just four
colors. But if you were given a very
complex map and asked to do it by hand,
it would take you a long time. I mean,
Andress is a very smart guy and he said
it would take him all afternoon,
[laughter] right? Um, so for me that
means it would take me all day. Um,
right. Uh, and yet these entities they
they [snorts] do it instantaneously
like less than a second and they do it
repeatedly. So they're performing, you
know, in short, they're performing
mathematical operations, mathematical
algorithms that would take a human
brain, um, a smart human, several hours,
and they're doing it in a fraction of a
second. And there are other things and
that I didn't quite understand, but
other operations, finding the distances
between two surfaces, weird stuff,
mathematical stuff, right? So most
people when they go into this space,
they go, "Fuck, this is incredible. this
is impossible but they can't tell you
why it's impossible. When a
mathematician goes into this space they
can say yes this is impossible for these
reasons right these are the mathematical
operations required to construct these
things and a human brain couldn't do
that within a fraction of a second. So
it just occurred to me that this is how
we do it. We don't kind of rely on them
to play with us or to kind of um to
cooperate with our little prove yourself
games, but actually they're doing it all
the time. They're demonstrating their
intelligence. They can't help it. They
love performing and we just need to send
the right people in. So we send in
mathematicians, you send in geometers or
topologists or whatever, right? You send
in linguists.
>> Whoa.
um who can look at the kind of because
code and language is also a big part of
the experience and they can say okay
this seems to be some kind of language
and I can explain why it's some kind of
language it seems to be informationally
dense or whatever you know adheres to
these various rules of how languages are
constructed and bringing data back so
you're not just sending people in and
going kind of what happened man right
the kind of the straasman approach is
great for its time but now we have this
DMTX technology we can send people in
with specific skill sets.
>> Whoa.
>> Specific, you know, high level expertise
in very specific fields and they can
say, okay, I'm going to come in. I'm
going to describe the the geometric
structure of the space. I'm going to
describe the topology of the space. I'm
going to describe the the way that these
intelligences communicate and all this
kind of stuff. It's hard to comprehend
the implications, I think, that we could
actually demonstrate.
>> Yeah. pretty soon, you know, or or at
least to a very
high level of probability say, okay,
these intelligences are doing things
that the human brain can't do. What does
that mean?
>> Yes. Yes. Do do we have you know in the
past we've had angel hierarchies like
you have St. Thomas Aquinas with his
angel hierarchy or amus
>> you know who was the other guy Dianisis
of Aropagite or something something like
that.
>> Yeah. like we have these sort of uh and
they literally have taxonomies where
they'll have like attributes associated
with these different beings, physical
characteristics of the beings.
>> Do we have a taxonomy of the DMT world
beings? Do we have categories, you know,
like a like a like an Excel sheet of
these things like a bestie, right? Um we
don't not a formal one. Yeah, I mean
there are pe there are attempts online,
you know, to describe and there's a book
by David J. Brown,
illustrated field guide to DMT entities,
which is a lot of fun, uh, kind of
describing the type of entities that
people experience and there there are
clearly patterns. Um, so the machine
elves, by far the most famous residents
of this space,
>> they tend to be jovial. They're
multitudinous. You know, there's so many
of them bouncing around and they're
jolly and they like to show you
wonderfully strange highdimensional
objects. Terren McKenna used to call
like fab eggs but in nine dimensions or
whatever you know these kind of beings
that that tend to be more about a show
like a circus kind of thing. Uh more
about performing and showing you what's
possible. Um and then there are more
kind of serious beings. So the
insecttoids manted kind of beings. These
tend to be a bit more um uh less jovial,
shall we say, often and they they are
often the beings that will perform kind
of surgery uh on you on your brain or on
your body and scanning and this kind of
thing.
>> That's so common in alien abductions. So
common, right? And there are always
these sort of worker be like often short
grays and then there's like a tall gray
overseeing it or there's a a tall white
you know these like sort of blonde
Nordic looking beings overseeing you
know it there is this sort of hierarchy.
Yes. Always almost almost always
associated with this.
>> Yeah. I I actually got last year I got
this email from this Korean guy. M now
there aren't that I don't think there
are that many Koreans who take Iawaska
who travel to Peru to take Iawaska. So I
I kind of it piqued my interest when he
emailed me. But he he went to um Peru
because he wanted healing. He wanted to
meet Mother Awaska and the spirits of
the forest. He didn't he didn't get
that. He got a full-blown alien
experience. He he was taken by this what
he described as the alien scientist
through this extremely complex
computational tunnel thing into this uh
spacecraft or some kind of highly hyper
technological environment and these
beings were torturing him. They were had
with these smaller beings again the
hierarchy um these smaller beings that
were kind of doing things to him. Uh,
and then there was this alien scientist,
um, who was not like these little
insecttoid beings, but was much much
more powerful. Um, and that that he
describes
this being as taking out his soul. This
being was torturing him at a deep soul
level. I mean, he came out of it
thinking that his soul had been captured
like a fish on a hook, he described it,
uh, by these beings. And it went on and
on. Um, first experience,
the aliens came. Second experience, more
of the same. Third experience, more
every single
um, IASKA session while he was in Peru,
um, it just got worse and worse. They
showed him horrible things. They showed
him humanity being destroyed and, uh,
trapped in this matrix like, um,
structure or whatever. I mean, it was
horrible. It was completely alien. was
nothing like he was expecting. He was he
was expecting his brain was primed to
see the spirits of the forest. He got
something completely
alien and he was horrified by it. Um,
and that's not an uncommon experience
when people take, you know, when you
take DMT, whether it's the form of
Iawaska in a forest or whether it's in a
the University of New Mexico hospital in
in room 531 where Rick Strazman did his
studies or in your bedroom or basement
or back room. Um,
>> you you cannot you cannot guarantee the
kind of being that you're going to be
interacting with. And if you're lucky,
you'll get some nice performance from
the AL, but there's a very, you know,
not insignificant probability that
you're going to encounter being more
objectionable, shall we say?
>> Yeah, for sure. [laughter] Well, that
brings up this earlier question that we
kind of touched on, but it's like how,
you know, is the is DMT a bridge to a
world that is separated without the DMT
from our waking reality
>> or are they always like
pre-enlightenment? If you were to say
there are, you know, machine elves, not
call them by that name, but like little
beings sort of like controlling the
forces of, you know, reality and like,
you know, pregravity and things like
that. we'd be like, "Yeah, of course."
They're like, "Spirits controlling
everything." Like literally pre- Newton
that would have been the sort of
conventional explanation. And um I saw
you on the Danny Jones podcast, which I
loved. And I think you guys brought up
Philip K. Dick,
>> right?
>> And Philip K. Dick would be one of these
guys who would extend this sort of DMT
world to his model of reality itself
>> where you know he gave this famous
speech uh in Mets France where he I
think it was called um you know if you
if you think this world sucks you should
see the others or something and he's
talking about the man in the high castle
you know where it's like the Nazis and
the Japanese had like annexed you know
the United States of World War II went
the other way
>> and He's, you know, and then he's g
giving this speech in front of all these
like wellrespected people or whatever
and he's like, "You guys don't get it.
Like that world happened. Like that's
real. Like that's an all the parallel
universe or something." And so he goes
into this whole he has this whole
ontology.
>> My friend RZ Verk um who's written uh
you know a couple of books about
simulation theory is friends with his
wife
>> uh Tessadick and she talks about how he
was just fully bought into the world
being a simulation. you know, it's like
time froze in Roman time. Like we're
still in Roman times and this this is
all this just sort of modern veneer. But
maybe the most interesting book I think
he wrote along these lines is this book
called The Adjustment Team. I don't know
if you've heard of this,
>> but it's a it's a book about like if you
had um a group that was in total control
of reality and they like froze this, you
know, podcast and then they like, you
know, moved the water like an inch or
whatever, then you get this
>> just like, you know, for rockets like
one° off course, you get this sort of
error propagation. You get this
multiplicative butterfly effect that
like changes timelines. And if you think
about a lot of what you're saying with
these DMT entities, if they have any
interface with our waking reality, they
would have that ability like the color
thing that you mentioned.
>> So it gets into these weird questions of
like are there timeiting archons or
beings that are like coming down freeze
framing things, neuralizing us, changing
a little variable here and there, and
then letting things run their course.
And then, okay, you know, some other
some other thing happens where some, you
know, a nuke's about to go off. They
stop the nuke or whatever, you know,
which UFOs show up around nuclear sites,
>> right?
>> But they're like weakly entangled with
our reality. All they care about are
these sort of
>> cosmic scale timeline minor. It's it's
minimal interference, minimal
adjustments necessary to like maintain
certain timelines, but they are
monitoring the timelines. I think we,
you know, I can't say whether that's
true or not, but we can't rule it out.
And when you it's like
when you when you use DMT and and you're
confronted with beings that are clearly
to say they're more advanced than
humans, it just doesn't do them justice.
I mean, you're talking about beings that
have that appear to have that kind of
cosmic
um
uh cosmic abilities, whether that is
indeed, you know, having whether they
are normally kind of um linked to
connected to uh have some kind of
relationship with our with our reality
but kind of stay back. I don't know. But
you the fact that we have this what I
consider to be a molecular technology
that allows us to interface with beings
that that seem to have those kind of
properties that seem to be at that level
of intelligence. A level of intelligence
that really is beyond our comprehension.
We can't there's no way for us to
conceive of what an intelligence like
that truly is or its potential or its
power or its abilities. uh then we
should use it. And and
going back thousands of years, I mean
these obviously these civilizations in
the Amazonian rainforest, they didn't
have they weren't talking about things
you're talking about, but they were
describing the same types of beings
which they took very seriously. So they
were talking about um the Yanomami for
example had these these beings which
which they called the wusinari insect
beings
>> um which sound very much you know very
intelligent very fearsome creatures
which sound a lot like the insecttoid
aliens that people are describing in the
21st century. uh they describe the heura
which are these multitudinous beings.
You can never come to the end of them.
They say they come dancing and they're
they're singing and playing flutes and
they're just be dance bounding around u
and jumping into your chest and filling
your chest. This is shamanistic mythos
going back thousands of years. And then
in the modern era, people describe
seeing multitudinous giggling lively
little beings, balls of light or
whatever that jump into their chest. Uh,
and so clearly this is not just a it's
not Terrence McKenna implanting the idea
of machine elves into people's brains.
>> These are
motifs
um, beings, intelligent beings that go
back thousands of years. And now we have
a technique. We know how to access them.
uh and we need to start taking that
seriously and not simply dismissing. You
know, my work is not so much about
saying I know what's going on. Uh but
really to convince people that they
don't have a [__] clue what's going
on and that they they should stop simply
assuming um that they understand what
DMT is. It's just your brain on drugs,
man. Uh this is just your brain making
it up, man. You know that these kind of
explanations and they don't they don't
work. And I think we need to we need to
certainly draw inspiration from these
indigenous peoples who did take them
seriously and did see them as beings
that they could have relationships with
and learn from and and and bring that
into there's a thread running from these
indigenous cultures going back thousands
of years and it's it runs into the 21st
century where we're now we have much
better technology. Now we have, as I was
just talking about DMTX, we have this
technology where we can much more
reliably and stably enter the space.
We're not relying on um drinking
extremely bitter, disgusting decoctions.
Nothing wrong with that. Uh but we now
have techniques where we can stabilize
the state. We can go in there, we can
send people and we can actually begin to
build relationships with these
intelligences. Uh and that might be what
we need if we're going to progress
beyond uh where we are now. You know, we
need to do that probably pretty quickly
before we kill ourselves, which is not
uh that unlikely,
>> right? Do you do you think um you know,
DMT is so fascinating? Do you think that
there is something about the fact that
it exists in all organic matter that is
sort of an important aspect to it? I
mean, that's that's again that's another
one of its peculiarities, right? It's
not it's the simplest of all the
naturally occurring psychedelics.
>> Um, you look at the molecule, it looks
perfectly unremarkable. There's nothing
interesting about it. If I saw DMT and I
didn't know anything about it, I'd say
>> probably not going to be that
interesting.
>> Uh, it's two steps, enzyatic steps from
tryptophan, this amino acid. Um, you
decaroxulate a tryptophan, you get
tryptoine. You add two methile groups,
you get DMT. This is as simple as it
gets.
>> Uh, and as you said, it's not just
common, it's ubiquitous. Terrence Dennis
McKenna, Terren's brother, says DM
nature is drenched in DMT. Uh, he
thinks, and he's probably right, that if
you looked carefully, you'd find it in
basically every plant. Some have higher
concentrations than others. So you can
extract it from like,
>> right? So it's this it's see it's it's
this ubiquitous very simple molecule
that just happens to when you smoke it
or inject it just happens to gate access
to this completely alien reality filled
with highly intelligent beings. I don't
buy that that's just a coincidence. It
seems like there is this message
implanted in our reality, implanted in
the natural world and it just takes uh
an organism with a certain level of
cognitive advancement, right? You can't
just eat plants.
>> You can't just munch plants mindlessly
and have a DMT trip. You can't do that.
You have to isolate it. You have to
extract it. You have to learn how to use
it as the Amazonians did with Iawaska uh
to bypass this monoamine oxidase in the
stomach that you need an intelligent
being to do that. Uh which is another
interesting aspect to it. You don't
stumble across DMT. Uh you have to learn
to uh you have to discover it and learn
how to use it. And this is not you know
the technology didn't end with Iawaska.
It didn't end in the 1960s when we
learned that you could vaporize it
either. And it didn't end in 2015 when
myself and Rick Strazman developed the
DMTX protocol. Um I think we're still
learning to use this this technology. Um
and I think it's so it is like a techn
it's like semiconductors are like you
know it's like electron differentials or
whatever. It's like this is like you
know another technology where if you
figure out the key to extracting it like
you're you're opened up to a whole new
world.
>> Exactly. And what's also very
interesting of course is that it's not
just a product of plant metabolism
metabolism. It's a product of mamalium
metabolism as well. So it's found in
humans. So we're all carrying DMT at
very low levels which raises the
question and again this is something
that I'm currently working on um with
with New Nordics. We've we've hired the
University of uh or contracted with a
team at the University of Florida um to
actually
develop techniques to hack the brain's
endogenous DMT system. Right? So we know
that there is we know the human brain
produces DMT but in very low levels. And
we think we found a peptide or a peptide
that was first found in the 1970s but
then forgotten about.
>> What's a peptide?
>> We don't know. We know it's there. We
know it. It basically it inhibits this
enzyme called indolethyl
indoleethylamine
nmethyl transferase inm. Okay,
>> it's the key enzyme to produce DMT.
Basically converts tryptoine to
dimethylryptoamine. Now this enzyme um
is inhibited by this peptide we all
carry uh and basically keeps DMT levels
low. Now we know this peptide is there.
It's in cerebral spinal fluid. it's in
mamleian brain um but we don't know how
it works. We don't know its structure or
its sequence or anything like that. So
we're working with University of Florida
new nautics um to basically to isolate
and characterize
uh this peptide and try to understand
the regulatory system that controls DMT
levels. what the switch or the slider,
right? And so the idea being that u we
can if we understand this regulatory
system, we can learn how to hack it. And
so rather than giving someone
injecting someone with DMT, we rather we
can inject them with a small amount of a
peptide for example um that will allow
them to naturally slide into be induced
into the DMT state and and kept there
for you know long periods of time. So we
call this endodmtx or edmtx.
>> Is any of this playing with fire? Like
you know I think about we're you know we
now can split the atom. We you know know
the genetic code of you know humans. So
we're still discovering stuff there but
you know we're we're starting to crack
that. And then we have we have the
ability to if you find some peptide
where you can you know just modulate
this and even with the the the uh
introvenous stuff you can modulate it on
and off. Is there something actually
adaptive about not being in control of
it and
whoever set up, you know, whatever world
we're in, you know, having having set it
up in the in the right sort of way, the
sort of enthropic principle or
something. It's it's it it exists in
sort of perfect amounts.
>> Well, you could take that. Many people
think that, right? And that's a very
cautious attitude to take. But there's
nothing natural about extracting from
mimos hostilus root bark with sodium
hydroxide and and um and zippo lighter
fluid. You know, this is this is this is
a you're employing chemistry. You're
employing technology to do this. So
>> So if if that was the case, then I would
you'd stop at Iawaska and even not even
IASA because that itself is a
technology. So then then you're back to
well you're back to not knowing what DMT
is because you can't just ingest it. So
there's no you can't just consume the
the naturally occurring source of DMT.
There's no way to do it.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. You can't do it. Uh you have to
either combine it with with this
monoamine oxidase inhibitor uh and boil
it down or you have to extract it. And
so I don't see why
one particular technology, one
particular um way of using DMT should be
seen as the the be all and end all of
it. Um, so okay, we can extract it.
This seems to me a stepping stone on the
way to further development. And I just
think that the that Rick Strasman's
pure, you know, pharmace pharmaceutical
grade DMT injected directly in the
bloodstream was a step beyond extracting
plant um, smoking or vaporizing plant
extracts. And then now I think the DMTX
is just the next iteration along that
path. And ultimately, I think, you know,
I don't know where this is going, but I
don't I've never got the sense that,
well, we need to stop here. This is the
way to use DMT. I don't I think that
doesn't really make any sense to me.
>> Um, so I think in the future, who knows
how we're going to be using DMT? Will
there be combinations of molecules that
we we're using? Will we be dispensing as
I said with molecules altogether with
exogenous molecules and using hacking
our own um endogenous DMT production
system and then you would I can imagine
a future where your you lie in a pod and
all of your bodily needs are taken care
of you're fed uh you might you know your
oxygen supply is managed then your body
may be cooled down um your waste
products are dealt with um and you spend
days weeks months significant portions
of your your
to anyone observing you basically asleep
in a pod. Yeah. Uh and to you, you would
be interacting with and you know,
>> which is by the way what we could be in
now,
>> right?
>> Like that's you know, we could be in the
matrix and we could just wake up and
you're in some pod or whatever of jelly
and you could have
>> whatever the hyperexpanded version of
DMT that ports you into this world or
whatever, [laughter] right?
>> So it's like you end up in this sort of
babushka doll model of reality.
>> That's true. Or it could be that you're
actually returning uh and that actually
going to the pod is the way to return to
your
>> sure
>> your back back to the pod. And people
that's kind of interesting because
>> they say it's realer than real, right?
>> Realer than real. So this is actually
you're in a pod now and then when you go
into the pod whatever and raise the DMT
levels, you actually wake up in back and
>> and it goes to Plato's cave where it's
like all we're seeing now is sort of
similacra. In fact, in the Matrix, the
movie, he's looking at a book and it's I
think it's Jean Bodilard or whatever.
This French, you know, Bo Bjallard,
that's right. Um, you know, Simulac and
Simulation or whatever. And it's like,
you know, it's clearly the Wowski
siblings. They, um, you know, were
paying homage to this sort of, you know,
postmodern author that's writing about,
right,
>> Simulac. It's just so so fascinating.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And people do describe very
a very common feeling when they enter
the DMT space is one of I'm back.
Welcome and they, you know, the lights
are flashing and it's like welcome home.
What do you mean welcome home?
>> You do like a life review,
>> right? And it's like this very strong
sense of dja vu like I've been here
before. Not only have I been here
before, but this is my true home. So
maybe that's what's happening. Maybe we
are on a path towards the state where we
return. And does it does it look like
lying in a pod and closing your eyes and
uh raising your DMT levels in your brain
through some technology? Maybe. Maybe
it's something else that we don't yet
understand.
>> I think you know consciousness is a sort
of it's a reduction mechanism on a
default state of greater omniscience or
something. And so I think it's this is
is consciousness locally produced or is
it sort of transmitted and ported into a
receptor that's inherently limited? And
I would I would say the latter.
>> Um but it you know yeah it does bring up
all these all these sorts of question
but it goes back to this sort of Plato
thing where [snorts]
>> in all these sort of mystery rituals
across time and space whether you know
um they deal with psychedelics or not.
Sometimes they just deal with sheer
amounts of pain like putting your hand
in a glove full of bullet ants or
whatever. you are temporarily if the if
biology is a is a collapsing function on
a default state of greater omniscience,
you're killing that collapsing function
temporarily and the person
>> experiences sort of greater
consciousness and awareness. And you'd
expect this more sort of muted like, oh,
it all just shut off and that now I'm
back or I got turned back on, but it's
not. the mystery ritual kills the
collapsing function and you get this
sort of greater, you know, ontological
reality and then you come back and there
there's always this translation function
issue. I think William James was like
writing in his diary about like, you
know, some some trip he had had or
something and like you you end up
writing mumbo jump like just, you know,
gobblygook. It's like impossible to
translate.
>> Yeah. And Terren McKenna used to say, "A
secret is not something untold. It is
something that cannot be told.
>> Cannot be told. Oh, I that is beautiful.
>> Yeah. Isn't that beautiful? Awesome.
>> I wish I thought of that. [laughter]
Yeah.
>> But the unglishable and you have to you
you have to have the direct experience.
You can't you can bring back fragments,
lower dimensional projections of this
space and talk about it to some extent,
but you you cannot. And this is why it's
so difficult spending my life talking
about DMT is is what I really should say
is just just go there and then get back
to me. Um because people can't
comprehend when I'm talking about
entities or strange other worlds that in
their head they're seeing this 1970s
science fiction movie with little green
men on on a globe. um they don't there's
no way for them to even conceive of
what's actually going on in my head when
I'm talking about this thing because
it's unglishable,
>> you know, and so trying to English the
unglishable to f the uneffable the
ineffable put it like that is is is very
very difficult. Um um but but it's not a
completely hopeless t at least I can
explain to people why okay there are
certain aspects of this space that that
that make it impossible and that mean
that that
um the only conclusion we can draw from
that is that there's more going on
there's more going on here than we can
explain. Uh if people come away from my
work with that, then
>> I've kind of done my job. And the rest
happens with a glass pipe and um you
know, inhaling a couple of lungfuls of
DMT vapor. That's the only 100%
conversion
>> conversion technique.
>> I know. I get it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No,
there's no it's like a lot if you're
studying any of these fields, the work
is actually in translating your ontology
to the average person. It's not
>> it's it's also in you know working out
the ontology itself but it's it you have
to do both otherwise you end up on an
island completely you know like and
there's just no interface with you know
the rest of the world so is is there
something about DMT
>> where you know I think it it it shows up
right when you die is that right and
then does it show up at the womb in the
womb around like I remember reading Rick
Rick Straman's uh you know DMT spirit
molecule and he talks about it being
maybe a part of identity formation is
that are th these things possible or has
that been debunked because this was you
know like probably 20 years ago he was
writing this
>> well it's not been debunked I mean I
think it's often the idea so the DMT the
spirit molecule came from Rick
Strasman's idea that it's released at
the point of death and is like
>> provides the conduit by which the soul
exits the body and enters the afterlife
this is a very obviously mystical
spiritual hypothesis
um but it's often it's often
repeated as if it's fact, right?
There's, you know, DMT is produces
dreams in it's released in small amounts
and then large amounts you sleep.
>> But both of these are hypothesis. Um,
>> so we don't know that.
>> We don't know that. However,
>> um, the dream thing I don't think makes
any sense because most dreams are not
anything like DMT. So people who think
they're going to have a dreamlike
experience when they take DMT, I'm
sorry, but it's not going to be anything
like any normal dream.
>> Um, so I don't and there's no evidence
that DMT is produced during sleep. So
that one I think is just that was just
again a hypothesis put out by a guy
called Jace Callaway in the 1980s.
Terrence McKenna often repeated it
perhaps giving a he was a little bit
more definitive than he should have been
about that. Uh, but then the the dying
thing is more interesting. um whether or
not it provides
the means by which you can enter the
afterlife, that's a different question.
That's more of a metaphysical question.
I don't think science is really going to
get to the bottom of that. But the idea
that it's released at the point of
death, actually there is good evidence
now that it could be. I don't think it's
the pineal gland. And the pineal gland
is what Stasman thought. Um the pineal
gland is a very very tiny gland. It's
about this big, the end of my little
finger. It produces nanogs of of
melatonin. It's it's not set up to pump
out large amounts of DMT, enough DMT to
cause a breakthrough experience. But as
I said, it's DMT is two steps from
tryptophan. So,
you know, other cells in the brain,
potentially all neurons in the brain
could produce DMT. You don't need to
rely on the pineal. And some recent
studies showed some interesting things.
Firstly that um DMT levels in rodents
this was so not humans but still mammals
um
>> uh DMT levels uh in in awake living um
rodents were about the same as other
neurotransmitters like serotonin and
dopamine.
>> So it's not tiny amounts. It's not a
breakthrough psychedelic level but still
>> produced in the same kind of quantities
as other neurotransmitters which is kind
of cool, right? So clearly the the the
brain is diverting resources to
producing DMT. Why? We don't know.
However,
>> there's something functional.
>> There's something functional there. And
and what's interesting uh is that when
they
sacrifice these rodents, sacrifice is
such a weird word. They don't like put
them on an altar and light candles. They
kill them. Right? So when they kill
these rats, they they actually have a
technique now called microdialysis where
they're able to measure in real time DMT
levels in a living rat, which wasn't
available, you know, all these decades
ago when these hypothesis were
originally proposed. But now they can.
So they can measure DMT in the brain of
a a rodent. Uh and then they kill the
rodent and as the rodent dies, DMT
levels,
>> rise, they spike. Um, now and you also
see this with other neurotransmitters by
the way. So it's not just DMT, but
still, okay, DMT levels are rising.
That's in line with Strasman's model. No
one's done that with a human. So if you
could get permission with somebody who
was end of life, um, you know, perhaps
on a life support machine.
>> Yeah. And and during the dying process,
could you get permission from them or
their family members to u to draw their
blood? That would be an experiment that
could be done. Ethically, it's
difficult obviously, great, but yeah,
but it could be done, right? Uh, and
what's interesting about DMT is that
other studies have shown that when you
take neurons, so neurons are very
sensitive to oxygen. They need oxygen,
you deprive a neuron of oxygen, it dies.
Um this is why strokes where you you
lose blood supply to certain areas of
the brain are so devastating because if
you don't restore blood supply very very
quickly areas of the brain die and you
end up with severe disabilities or
death.
>> Um what's interesting is that in a
oxygen hypoxic oxygend deprived
environment um neurons will survive
longer in the presence of DMT.
>> Whoa. it, but they bind to a specific
receptor called the sigma sigma one
receptor uh which you know a few decades
ago we didn't know existed and and has
no other function. It's called an orphan
receptor and that it's a receptor that's
there but but nothing binds to it. We
know now that DMT binds to it. So it's
not a true orphan receptor because it
binds to an endogenous molecule DMT. So
it binds to this receptor and it it
initiates a a cascade of intra
intracellular signaling that seems to
somehow protects the neuron. Um so you
can imagine during the dying process uh
as your respiratory system is
collapsing. Blood supply to the brain is
diminishing. Your brain is being starved
of oxygen. DMT ramps up and should you
survive the DMT has protected your brain
during that period where you were dying.
>> Does that make sense? Yeah.
>> And now it doesn't answer the question
of why.
>> So like prolong it like it bridges the
neurons to your survival state or
something. It gives them a little
>> gives them a little wiggle. Exactly. So
the rest of the body can survive if you
kind of resuscitate it for example.
>> Um or your heart restarts or whatever.
Uh, but your brain that want that's
going to be in trouble. So it needs a
bit of extra protection. Whoa.
>> So the DMT seems to be doing that.
>> So that fits in with the dying process.
So maybe that's why it's released during
death. It doesn't answer of course why
it send why this molecule also just
happens to transport you to this
alternate reality. So clearly there's a
connection there. Does that mean um that
DMT has this kind of dual function? It's
protecting the brain during the dying
process. Uh but if you actually do die,
it also
allows you to directly uh move into
whatever happens after you die. Maybe
maybe you are getting a glimpse. I mean
that's not a particularly nice thought
the idea of going permanently into the
DMT space. I mean it's
>> I don't you know that I guess that's
where the preparation comes in of of
working within this space because it is
kind of shocking and horrifying for many
people. Uh but maybe that's why it's
important to work with DMT whilst you're
still alive because you're going to this
is the kind maybe this is where you're
going to go after you die. I don't know.
That's pure speculation. Yeah.
>> But so so in short, the whole DMT spirit
molecule thing started as a pure
speculation and now
>> okay, it all seems to hang together. The
idea of DMT be released during the dying
process which is kind of cool.
>> Yeah, it's fascinating. GMO Borgagen at
University of Michigan. She studies
stuff around, you know, endogenous DMT
receptors in the brain and stuff, but
she also studies terminal lucidity,
which I find very interesting. this idea
that sometimes somebody can be in like a
coma for a long time and then right
before they die they seem to sort of
wake up be extremely alert and like back
to their old selves or have dementia and
right before they it's fascinating sort
of um phenomenology. Uh does that have
anything to do with DMT? I just I found
it interesting that she both studies DMT
and she looks into this or is that just
a coincidence?
>> I don't know if it's a coincidence. It
might not be a coincidence whether this
um this terminal lucidity has anything
to do with DMT or is something else. I
mean it might DMT might be part of it. I
mean as I said you get lots of
>> quite dramatic changes in neural
activity and these electrical storms and
uh increases in various
neurotransmitters and neuromodulators
during the dying process. So it's it's
it you know it's probably some emergent
effect from all of this happening and
DMT is just a part of it. M that's my
guess but I don't really know.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Very interesting. Do you
think you know Aldis Huxley famous
British British author but also kind of
psychonaut. He um
>> he I think at the end of his life was uh
was dying and he asked his wife to uh
give him an extremely high dose of LSD.
>> That's right.
>> And um he also said something very
interesting which I want to get your
take on. He said that in the 21st
century we would see a religion
uh sort of induced by more mass
psychedelic use and people would have
more of an individual connection with
like almost a gnostic connection with
God and the universe through these
psychedelics. Do you think that that
will happen? You know, sort of the
Timothy Liry like if you had LSD in the
tap water sort of thing. Yeah, I
[sighs and gasps] I mean a religion
I'm slightly fearful of the word
religion
>> um in that it is a set of doctrines, a
set of prescribed beliefs. Um so I would
hope
that this this doesn't take the form of
a religion. Um you you see that kind of
thing happening with DMT specifically uh
where
certain groups of people often quite
influential who have decided that
they've got a handle on things. They
understand what DMT represents and they
understand the entities and they
understand how it connects to reality
and how we should use DMT and all of
this. and then they bring in followers
and there are a number of small pockets.
I mean nothing ever become
that's kind of consumed the space in any
way. The DMT kind of community if you
want to use that word. Uh but I but but
certainly
um
I think the truth is that it's very
difficult to not become I wouldn't say
religious but
spiritual mystical to accept that
actually there's more to reality and you
know you you are confronted with that
it's undeniable when you take DMT that
there's more to reality um and that we
are but a very small fragment of
reality. And when when large numbers of
people
begin to accept that,
um
then the question is is well what what
do we do with that? Um you know what do
we what do we do with an elf as McKenna
used to say like how do we take that
fact
and move with it? Does it require
>> Does it require some kind of religious
doctrinal structure or not? I don't
know.
>> Yeah,
>> I don't know. I mean, that's a question
that that that bothers me. Like, what
what is this all about? Where's this all
going? bothers me too because I I I
think I have the same inclinations as
you which is to directly experience to
push the boundaries on these things and
to sort of like really know stuff for
yourself to the extent you can
>> and then I wonder if it's sort of this
horseshoe thing where you start off like
super ignorant then you seek truth in
some like more objective sense about you
know metaphysical reality and then you
realize there's like some overload or
something like this is actually not
adaptive for like a single human to
know. And it's really all about like
leading a good life on earth and
understanding kind of the the the bounds
of of our of our lives and our
epistemology and then you become sort of
religious and you realize how adaptive
religion is or something,
>> right?
>> Yeah. I mean that's it's like the path
will reveal itself. I think I try not to
think too far ahead of where this is
going because I don't know if I'm being
completely honest. Um but I think we
just keep moving forward carefully
um with humility. Um, and I think the
the the whole DMTX stuff, in my opinion,
has has been just another step along
that path of using this molecule, trying
to understand it as much as we can, not
going in with assumptions about what
we're dealing with or what the what the
the teiology is. You know, what is the
the the ultimate aim of all of this? I
don't I don't I speculate uh and what it
might look like, but I don't know. Um I
don't know if it's possible for us to
know at this point. we there could be
some kind of phase transition that's
that's necessary to take place before we
can even comprehend. I mean, we don't
really know what the next five years is
going to look like. People are
speculating on with AI and stuff, but I
don't think anyone really knows where
we're headed.
>> I agree.
>> It's always the sort of some adjacent
surprise or something. It's never the
whenever people make predictions, I'm
always skeptical. Like these sort of
quote unquote futurists that sort of
grift off of some, you know, for sure,
you know, future vision that never it
never manifests the way they
>> sort of say.
>> Um,
>> do you believe in God?
>> Well, that came from left field.
[laughter]
>> Talk about religion.
>> Do I believe in God? Well, I'm going to
give the kind of the obvious answer,
which is how do you define God?
>> Going to fire that question back at you.
You know, how do you define God? When
people say, do you believe in God? Well,
the God that is in your head is probably
quite different to the God in my head.
So, I could answer that yes, I could
answer that no, and be truthful in both
cases depending on on how you define
God. But you could use that sort of
postmodern breakdown of language to
like, you know, retort any sort of
question. That's true. And I'm not
trying to be an annoying postmodernist.
>> No, no, I get it. God [laughter] God is
especially undefinable.
>> Jordan Peterson or something.
>> God Peter Peterson's hilarious because
he hates the postmodernists, but he is
so postmodern in the way he speaks. He
speaks he's so like he hate he thinks
that all that stuff you know fukco or
whatever is the reason that like
societyy's in decline and then when you
call him out and you debate him on this
stuff it's it turns into this postmodern
gobbleygook where he's like what did you
stake your life on [laughter] what are
you talking about dude like you're you
are making no sense
>> but in this case I think it's valuable
because people do have different
conceptions of God now if you mean do I
mean a higher being that created the
universe that we that we that we should
worship
then no I don't believe in that.
>> But do I believe that there is some kind
of
>> intelligence that is [clears throat]
nonhuman, non-physical that we can't
directly interact with normally perhaps?
Um that has been around a lot longer
than we have. Um
well, I can't help but believe that. I
mean I've when you when you smoke DMT,
you interact with such intelligences. Do
I think there's one grand intelligence?
Yeah. That that subsumes all of these?
Maybe. Maybe. Um maybe God is con, you
know, you could take the the more
>> vidant or ancient Hindu uh answer that
question, which is to say, well, God is
everything. God is consciousness. God is
the ultimate reality. There is nothing
that isn't God.
>> I like that idea as well. And that we
are all the million. Um who was it? Um,
GK Chester, GK Chesterton, [snorts]
>> uh, it talks about the million masks of
God.
>> Um, um, and that's we're all masks of
God. You know, the eye with which I see
God is the the eye with which I see God
is the same eye with which God sees me.
>> And that we're all expressions of and we
there's no escaping that. we're all part
of and expressions of
>> uh masks of the ultimate reality which
you might call God. I a Hindu might call
Brahman. Somebody else um might call the
ultimate reality that which is um that
idea I I I kind of um sympathetic
towards as well. And I kind of feel like
that I think consciousness is
fundamental in some very deep profound
way. I don't think we're going to
explain consciousness in terms of
physicalism or in terms of um neural
activity or anything like that. I think
it's beyond that. I think it's
absolutely fundamental. And so yes, I
the answer to your question is I believe
in God, but perhaps not
the God as as as you might define it,
but as the God as I would define it.
What what do you think about these um
this buddy Danny who does these DMT
laser defraction experiments? I'm sure
you get asked this all the time where
people take DMT there's some sort of you
know laser intersection and then they
look at it and they claim to see some
sort of almost like code that they I
mean that's their interpretation like a
code that is you know um the computation
behind the universe or something. What
what do you think about this? Well, do I
think that he is and and other people
are seeing the fundamental code that
runs our reality? No, I don't think that
at all. I don't I think the idea that
that reality is computational or is some
kind of code, okay, that's possible. The
idea that you could look at it and it
would look like
characters that we recognize like
Japanese katakana and uh and Hebrew and
and stuff like this, well, that doesn't
make any sense. Um, that's what they're
seeing. And it's no coincidence that the
Matrix movie we're talking about, I
mean, the code rain, the famous green
running digital imagery, that's built
from Japanese katakana. So, it seems
like a little bit on the nose there. A
little bit. So, no, I don't think I
think it doesn't make any sense to me is
is the broad thing. And I also think the
problem is that lasers, it's an
inconvenient coincidence, shall we say,
that when you shine a laser on a wall
without DMT, um it exhibits some very
unusual optical effects. So it forms
this interference pattern um on the
retina that
looks like kind of a matrix of speckles
or matrix of points of light that can
appear to extend beyond the surface.
This is all without DMT. Now, when you
add DMT to the mix, you see this matrix
of characters and geometric forms that
appear to extend well beyond the
surface. And you have to believe that
these are completely unrelated. That's
just a coincidence if you are to accept
that you're seeing actual code here. Um
so I think my working hypothesis which
might well be wrong uh is that but needs
to be eliminated uh is that this these
this matrix of sensory you basically got
a matrix of points of light which on the
retina which act like a sensory scaffold
around which in the under the influence
of DMT you you see complex forms and and
characters because characters are very
common in the DMT space uh as are
complex geometric structures. So I think
it's a very interesting fascinating
phenomenon and and very important one in
that it allows you to isolate a
particular fragment of the broader DMT
phenomenology. This the the reporting of
code and geometric uh forms that I will
get on board with uh I think it should
be studied. Do I accept do I think that
it
fundamental code that he somehow
stumbled upon um the the the way a
[snorts] way of seeing this fundamental
code of reality which just happens to
look like code.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh as we would imagine code. I mean you
imagine code, you imagine the matrix and
that's kind of what it's looking at
here. I think
I'm not ready to make that leap yet.
>> Yeah, that that seems unlikely to me
too. I think the thing that is
interesting about it is you are doing a
repeatable physical thing and then
people see you know ostensibly similar
you know a similar phenomena in the form
of whatever these symbols are whatever
which is like that's cool I mean even
that is sort of somewhat unprecedented
>> yes but then again the the laser light
is providing a very regular pattern of
sensory inputs
>> sure
>> um so that account and the fact that
these
>> but you don't see the symbols when
you're not on DMT, right?
>> You don't see the symbols. Exactly.
Exactly.
>> So, that's cool. That's interesting.
>> That's interesting. Um, but then again,
are people seeing people say the line
that you always hear from these these
laser people is, oh, everyone sees
exactly the same thing.
>> Now, what does that mean? That everyone
sees code
>> or everyone sees characters. Fine. Does
everyone see exactly the same characters
in the same order at the same time? No.
We don't know that. There's no way. No
one's demonstrated that. It's not even
possible. It's not even known if that's
possible because apparently they move
very very quickly. So are people seeing
the same thing or are people kind of
seeing the sort of the same thing? But
because again the language problem um I
can't take a you can't take a photograph
of this code and so you can't compare.
You have to rely on language and you
have to rely on little sketches and
things that people do. But but there's
no way so far to demonstrate that two
people even at the same time are
actually seeing exactly the same code.
Uh and people as I said people have been
describing code and digits and
characters uh in uh in the DMT state for
for decades. So it's like what's unique
and interesting and important about this
is that it allows you to kind of isolate
that particular aspect of and reliably
uh view that particular aspect of of the
broader DMT visual phenomenology. Uh but
anything beyond that to make you know
deep deep conclusions about the
fundamental structure of our reality
that you're seeing the code that runs
our reality. I think that is a very very
large uh leap and I don't think there's
any there's nothing in the the effect
the phenomenon that would would lead one
to draw that conclusion. You have to
start by eliminating
>> lots of other more mundane hypotheses
which takes time, it takes money, it
takes very careful experimental setup
and you know performing of various
experiments to be able to eliminate um
the influence of this laser interference
speckle effect as it's called. Uh but
that needs to be done because otherwise
it's going to be private revelation.
They're going to be people who do it and
believe
>> and they're going to form a group um who
all believe in this but they have no
they're not able to demonstrate or prove
that this is what they are actually
seeing but they all are have convinced
themselves that's what they're seeing.
They're seeing the fundamental code of
reality and you you get forms of kind of
religion if you like uh where you have
the believers and you have the
non-believers. Um I'm not ready to kind
of fall in with with the believers just
yet.
>> Yeah. What do you think of modern uh UFO
disclosure? Do you track that at all? Do
you think it reduces down to these sort
of altered states of consciousness or do
you believe we have saucers and you know
hangers at places like Area 51? Well, I
mean the Area 51 I mean that's cool
stuff, right? I mean I don't I'm not an
expert on it. So I don't I follow
certain things, right? When Bob Lazar
speaks when he's on Rogan, I watched
that. I thought that's fascinating
stuff. But I don't know. I don't know
what to make of it all. Um um and so I
kind of focus on
my thing. My thing is the not the the
shimmering metallic discs in the sky
which might not be physical of course. I
mean they might also be they also seem
to kind of occupy this space between the
physical and the non-physical the
forming feats that seem to be
>> um beyond what a physical object could
achieve. And I think that's perhaps
gives us a clue as as to their nature.
And and we might be dealing with
intelligences that don't necessarily
exist, you know, as physical wet bodied
beings on other star systems and are
traveling through vast distances to to
reach our planet, but actually occupy
some kind of space that is lying
parallel, hidden within amongst
whatever, you know, orthogonal to
whatever our reality and that they can
interface in certain ways with our
>> or physics is information theoretic like
you write about with, you know, John
Wheeler or whatever And you know a bunch
of people sort of contemplate you have
all this you know wolf ram physics and
stuff computational physics then what if
they are just the programmers of our
reality like they they they understand
the source code in a way that we don't
and there's a lot in physics that kind
of points to that there's like
>> you know you have um what like
Heisenberg's uncertainty principle where
you know you can't measure position and
momentum you know simultaneously in very
accurate ways like one gets more fuzzy
as the other gets more accurate. that
almost looks like a like a computational
caching function or something where only
so much can be stored in local memory,
you know, or like anthropic principle
where if plank's constant were slightly
different like we wouldn't really have
an atmosphere on Earth like there are
all these sort of weird goldilock or
like for theory where like you know
light between two you know points or
whatever it takes the most optimal
computationally efficient path. There
are all these things like that fib
fibonacci sequences and golden ratios
and stuff. It's like how do people code?
They just transport you know code
library. I mean now it's probably mostly
like co-pilots and AI but you know back
in the day it was like you'd like find
like libraries of code and you would you
know you'd transport code chunks or
whatever and like that's how they so
it's like you would reuse geometrically
efficient patterns like over and over
again and like that just exists like
across nature
>> exactly in the brain as well. I mean the
brain again is this you have these
repeating computational the fundamental
these columns you know the brain it's
like this the cortex you have all of
these cylindrical columns which is the
basic computational unit of the brain
and you stitch them all together um and
and all of the the the function uh of
your of your cortex arises from the
interaction of all these basic uh
computational units. So it's at every
level at every level you see that of
stitching together of of simpler units
that from which higher order behaviors
emerge and that goes all the way down
perhaps to the ground of reality itself.
you have these very simple rules. um you
know and it might you know running a
universe might be extremely simple if
you know the rules or if you find a way
to run all possible this is something I
explore in alien information theory the
idea that if you if you if you know all
possible rules which is just you know
the permutation on all possible rule all
possible rule sets you just run them all
you have the computational power you run
all of them and some most of them do
absolutely nothing some of them do
something a little bit interesting and
then die out and then maybe a tiny tiny
fraction. Um you start to develop
layered complexity, emergent complexity
and we just happen to be in one of those
hundred trillion trillion or whatever
universes where where the rule set gives
rise to interesting information.
>> Yeah. Well, Wolram has this you know
Steven Wolffra has this sort of
institute where he studies these
computational versions of physics and he
has this idea of computational
irreducibility. Yeah.
>> And there are things that you cannot
take as first principle, you know, a
priori concept. You need to run a
program in order to get that result. And
you have cellular automata and Conway's
game of life and all these things where
if you set some initial conditions,
yeah, maybe you end up with some final
branch that works or whatever, but like
there are a lot of branches that don't.
Um, and then you have to ask this like
meta question of if, you know, is our
earthly conflict, you know, Trump just
took out, you know, uh, three, uh,
Iranian nuclear sites with with, you
know, some B2s.
Is all of that existing, you know,
against some subrosa backdrop of like
some timeline adjustment conflict or
something [laughter] like is that the
true cosmic, you know, the like uponad
style war or whatever where you know if
you really think about like what's the
most scarce commodity? It's not gold.
It's not like like you know the last 50
years of American foreign policy has
been like sort of dictated by like you
know crude oil or whatever. Like it's
not those things, right? It's uh it's
time.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's timelines and it's like literal
like you know macro like events that
that occur on on on macro scales.
>> So like is [laughter] are these entities
sort of fighting over that or something?
>> Answer that question now. Andrew,
[laughter]
>> I don't know. [snorts]
>> Maybe.
>> Yeah. Who knows? Well, thank you so much
for uh gonna end on that absurd
question. [clears throat]
Thank I really appreciate this, man. And
I Everybody should go buy your book,
Death by Astonishment. Anything else you
want to
>> plug or promote or
>> Yeah, I mean, so Death by Astonishment,
that's the book about DMT and describes
the history of science's struggle to
make sense of it. So, if you're really
interested in what DMT is about and why
it's such a enigmatic and mysterious
molecule, read death by astonishment.
Well, also if you're anyone who's
interested in DMTX,
uh at the moment it's like it's a small
number of academic institutions that are
running DMTX, but we actually are
developing a a retreat center and a
research center in the Caribbean. What's
it St. Vincent and the Grenardines?
That's it. Um so we have a re research
center and retreat center that we're
developing now. Um, and the idea being
is not just doing research with DMT, but
also allowing anyone who wants to to
come and experience DMTX uh in a
beautiful tropical, you know, five-star
environment with all of the preparation
uh perhaps several different doses dose
levels before the the kind of the the
breakthrough DMTX experience. All of the
setting is just beautiful and the
integration afterwards. It will be a
unique institute.
>> Do you have any adverse experiences with
DMTX? Anybody?
>> So far, so far um all of the the
subjects at Imperial College
got through it. Um there was no
>> major problem. It was very intense.
>> Yeah.
>> Um maybe some of them didn't kind of
like it and didn't do the full
>> set of of experiments, but no like
severe, you know, physiological adverse
effects. And and of course we will
>> no severe mental, no like this really
[__] me up.
>> Nothing like that. Of course on the
island we will have anesthesiologists,
we have psychiatrists and nurses. Uh so
if people want to sign up they can go to
new nautics.org
n
au t i cs new nautics.org uh and they
can find out uh more about it there or
elucis mind. So Elus is the actual name
>> of the um um of the retreat. So it's
like we're bringing
>> the new Elus.
>> The new Elusis. Uh yeah. So
elusismmind.com and they can also, you
know, have a look at what the retreat
center is going to look like. So So
yeah, that's kind of an exciting thing
to be able to to kind of bring DMTX to
anyone who wants to kind of experience
it.
>> Super cool and exciting. It's funny. I
think you know Albert Hoffman who
discovered LSD Stannislav Grath and Carl
Ruck
>> all maybe this is a rumor but I think
they wanted to create a new elusis and
so it's cool that you're naming it that
>> it won't be with Urgot uh but we do have
a we we have a license from the the
government uh invincing the Grenardines
to work with any drug that we want. So
we so it's not implausible that we might
think about you know urgot alkaloids and
perhaps recreating um the the true
illinium mysteries and there are people
now working on actually reconstructing
that and trying to work out the exact
chemistry involved which is
>> and rescue is really trying [snorts]
journey
>> exactly and there are people that
followed on from his work as well
chemists and pharmarmacologists so it's
it's an exciting time to be interested
in psychedelics and an exciting very
interesting time to be alive more
generally of course but
>> I agree everything's spinning out and
getting weird but it's interesting um
okay Andrew I really appreciate this man
this is a lot of fun and um go by death
by astonishment and alien information
theory and uh yeah hopefully we can do
this again at some point
>> awesome
>> awesome thank